the World Championship car the Polo R
WRC with it Sebastien Ogier became rally
world champion in 2013 from the outside
you can still make out the standard
production vehicle the inside however
has been completely stripped down the
dashboard is a mock-up small space in
front of it the driver has access to all
important controls and gauges on the
right side of the steering wheel there
are some of the less used functions like
high beams and the radio comlink aside
this verdi victory left side is more
important that's where the maps would
choose this lets me select different
maps for various ground conditions it's
muddy dry or wet what I'm talking what
I'm not done hobby kidding this is the
rpm control here I can set various rpms
for the start five thousand to seven
thousand five hundred thousand fifteen
thousand full of gamma there are two
important buttons up here this one here
is for the wipers then we need down a
lot to clean up the windshield as
quickly as possible a ventral Chiron and
this red one here is my favorite one
yeah that's our start w factory driver
d2 depakote button takes us out for a
spin in the world championship sound an
acceleration alone are impressive well I
like that since the ground is dry today
we can use full engine
the cars body is reinforced by a safety
cell which protects driver and co-pilot
in case of a crash located directly to
the right of the steering wheel are the
oversized gear lever and the handbrake
1.6 liters four cylinders turbocharged
almost 300 horsepower the pedals look
like regular pedals pressing the clutch
is optional
we're going to accelerate again there's
a red lamp in the display that's my
switch line if this lights are bred I
have to switch to the next gear
driver can see the most important
information in the disk plan as a hobby
hits by sight this display has two sides
one side holds more information meaning
that it shows me things like speed the
selected gear rpms but also water
pressure oil pressure and battery power
torque on batter - panel doesn't saw
Debbie Dean that's the control area on
the driver's side
the copilot sits next to the driver and
he has his own display of course showing
him speed and distance traveled this
helps him navigate the driver through
the checks even small errors will result
in time losses here the co-pilot also
gets important status information about
the cars operating parameters the only
thing we're struggling with a little bit
is the heat inside the car there is
absolutely no insulation in this car the
engine heat migrates into the cockpit
through the exhaust system of course
that makes it extremely hot in here to
the expand bomber mobile just like a
black box on an airplane the polos
onboard computer logs all important
information after each check the
engineers download the data which helps
them to improve the vehicle otherwise
the cockpit is reduced to the bare
minimum
after all the rules stipulate a weight
of one thousand two hundred kilos that
leaves no margin for playing around even
so this is the ideal workplace for the
drivers during the World Championship
you